packages/server/postgres/README.md, before:

# PostgreSQL

## Setup

- pgadmin is at [http://localhost:5050](http://localhost:5050)
- Connect using the values of `PGADMIN_DEFAULT_EMAIL` and `PGADMIN_DEFAULT_PASSWORD` from your `.env`
- Click "Add New Server" and fill out the forms with your `.env` values

  - General.name = POSTGRES_DB
  - Connection.host = 'postgres' (hardcoded from docker-compose dev.yml, not from .env!)
  - Connection.username = POSTGRES_USER
  - Connection.password = POSTGRES_PASSWORD
  - Connection.maintenanceDatabase = POSTGRES_DB
  - Connection.port = POSTGRES_PORT

## Migrations

This folder contains all the postgres migrations that have been run on the database.
If your migration also requires a connection to RethinkDB, you can do that here, too.
The recommended way to write a migration is to call `yarn pg:migrate create NAME`
We no longer use pgm because we want every migration to run independently.
In other words, migration 3 should have a guarantee that migration 2 has already run. PGM doesn't do this.

### Queries

- [Queries](./queries/README.md)

### Gotchas

#### pgm vs. node-pg inside a migration

`pgm.db.query` isn't a true async function. It runs all migrations in parallel, queues up every query, and then executes those in serial.
This is generally fine if you only use `pgm`.
However, if you create 1 migration using `pgm` and a second migration using `pg.Client` then the 2nd migration will run before `pgm` finishes, causing it to fail.
What's more, if you call `pgm` to create a table and `pg.Client` to access that table, the table won't exist.
We learned this after about 10 migrations. As a band-aid, we use `pgm.noTransaction()` on migrations that caused errors.
Moving forward, we will only use `pg.Client`

#### Bulk inserts

Parameters are capped at 16-bit, so if you're doing a bulk insert, you'll need to break it up.
In other words, if `# rows * columns per row > 65,535` you need to do it in batches.
`pg-protocol` shows this here: https://github.com/brianc/node-postgres/blob/master/packages/pg-protocol/src/serializer.ts#L155
Issue here: https://github.com/brianc/node-postgres/issues/581

Commit message:

feat(pg): support SSL certs (#7175)
* feat(pg): support SSL certs

Signed-off-by: Matt Krick <matt.krick@gmail.com>

* feat(pg): remove conditional based on pgsslmode

Signed-off-by: Matt Krick <matt.krick@gmail.com>

* feat(pg): graceful support for defaults

Signed-off-by: Matt Krick <matt.krick@gmail.com>

* feat: add env var for PG_CERT_DIR

Signed-off-by: Matt Krick <matt.krick@gmail.com>

* feat: add postgresql ssl to readme

Signed-off-by: Matt Krick <matt.krick@gmail.com>

* chore(pg): accept unauthorized SSL connections. Required to work with CloudSQL without the CloudSQL Proxy.

* Use getSSL function for migrations as well

* Make rejectUnauthorized configurable

* fix: no spread pgm ssl params

Signed-off-by: Matt Krick <matt.krick@gmail.com>

* process.env fix

* Revert "Use getSSL function for migrations as well"

This reverts commit d351c3c015d017bd17542c9188c1f523f999570e.

* fix: coerce string to bool for getPgSSL

Signed-off-by: Matt Krick <matt.krick@gmail.com>

* fix: cleanup var names

Signed-off-by: Matt Krick <matt.krick@gmail.com>

* fix: re-add pgmConfig ssl

Signed-off-by: Matt Krick <matt.krick@gmail.com>

Signed-off-by: Matt Krick <matt.krick@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Rafael Romero <rafael@parabol.co>
Co-authored-by: Georg Bremer <github@dschoordsch.de>

packages/server/postgres/README.md, after:

# PostgreSQL

## Setup

- pgadmin is at [http://localhost:5050](http://localhost:5050)
- Connect using the values of `PGADMIN_DEFAULT_EMAIL` and `PGADMIN_DEFAULT_PASSWORD` from your `.env`
- Click "Add New Server" and fill out the forms with your `.env` values

  - General.name = POSTGRES_DB
  - Connection.host = 'postgres' (hardcoded from docker-compose dev.yml, not from .env!)
  - Connection.username = POSTGRES_USER
  - Connection.password = POSTGRES_PASSWORD
  - Connection.maintenanceDatabase = POSTGRES_DB
  - Connection.port = POSTGRES_PORT

## Migrations

This folder contains all the postgres migrations that have been run on the database.
If your migration also requires a connection to RethinkDB, you can do that here, too.
The recommended way to write a migration is to call `yarn pg:migrate create NAME`
We no longer use pgm because we want every migration to run independently.
In other words, migration 3 should have a guarantee that migration 2 has already run. PGM doesn't do this.

### Queries

- [Queries](./queries/README.md)

### SSL

1. Pick a directory on the local filesystem to store the keys. Store the absolute path in the env var `POSTGRES_SSL_DIR`
2. Add `root.crt` (CA), `postgresql.key`, and `postgresql.crt` to that directory.

### Gotchas

#### pgm vs. node-pg inside a migration

`pgm.db.query` isn't a true async function. It runs all migrations in parallel, queues up every query, and then executes those in serial.
This is generally fine if you only use `pgm`.
However, if you create 1 migration using `pgm` and a second migration using `pg.Client` then the 2nd migration will run before `pgm` finishes, causing it to fail.
What's more, if you call `pgm` to create a table and `pg.Client` to access that table, the table won't exist.
We learned this after about 10 migrations. As a band-aid, we use `pgm.noTransaction()` on migrations that caused errors.
Moving forward, we will only use `pg.Client`

#### Bulk inserts

Parameters are capped at 16-bit, so if you're doing a bulk insert, you'll need to break it up.
In other words, if `# rows * columns per row > 65,535` you need to do it in batches.
`pg-protocol` shows this here: <https://github.com/brianc/node-postgres/blob/master/packages/pg-protocol/src/serializer.ts#L155>
Issue here: <https://github.com/brianc/node-postgres/issues/581>
